We chose to tell a data-driven yet compelling story that challenges a common perception: while breast cancer is the most publicized, it is not the most common type of cancer. This contrast between public awareness and actual data is central to our narrative, making it both informative and thought-provoking. We did this by cherry picking the breast cancer diagnoses and comparing it with other cancer counts. With the use of narrative visualization, users are able to navigate the data at the end.

Our visualization was inspired by the example presented in the lecture, which showcased gun deaths in America, created by Ben Casselman, Matthew Conlen, and Reuben Fischer-Baum. Their approach to storytelling through data, particularly using dots to represent people and using narrative visualization techniques informed our design choices. We used colored dots to represent each person and their respective cancer diagnoses. To create an emphasis, each step would showcase a certain diagnosis highlighted with the associated color while the other cancer types would be gray. We also considered creating a color filtered scatter plot where users can interact with it by filtering to a certain BMI range based on mouse position.

The work for this project was split amongst the three of us pretty evenly. We started off by all exploring the dataset on our own, trying to see what stories we could show with this dataset. At one point, we counted how many of each diagnosis existed in this dataset, and noticed that breast cancer had the 4th highest count. After further research, we discovered that breast cancer was the most publicized cancer, even though there were other more diagnoses. Using this information, we planned out how we wanted our overall visualization to look together and split up the work from there. We concluded together each detail we wanted to portray, and Ethan did the coding for the visualization, while Hana and Kyra focused on the writeup. The total time this project took was roughly 6 hours, each person dedicating about 2 hours each. The aspects that took the most time were creating the visualization, figuring out exactly how to execute the images and story we wanted to tell in the format that was inspired from the gun deaths visualization presented in lecture.
